hi I'm Joshua Hardwick I'm the head of
content at ATF's and you're watching 100
days of SEO Josh thanks for joining us
for a hundred days of SEO
he had no worries SEO can be
overwhelming for some people I know
especially for beginners it can because
there's so many different arts and it's
really reverse engineering humans you
know where do you start and like how do
you decide what to prioritize yeah I
mean like you say it's quite a complex
topic I guess SEO like people that is
kind of overwhelming like you say for
beginners like but I suppose the
fundamentals of SEO just have the same
whatever you're trying to rank for
whatever you're creating really so I'd
say usually in any situation it's just a
case of keyword research creating the
content and but building some links to
that page and doing on-page optimization
and all that kind of thing so that's
true kind of fundamental the way of
doing things across the board for
anything really but I think there's just
so much nuance within that kind of whole
process that is what kind of confuses
people I supposed to answer your
question you know I'd probably look if I
was taught a new site or something like
that I'd look for keywords that you know
aren't too difficult to rank for at
least initially things like you know the
top 10 ranking pages that currently
they're not having too many links and
all that tear stuff so that you can
actually compete with them without doing
crazy with the link building and
obviously you know keywords and topics
that have actually got traffic potential
so people that people actually searching
for these things otherwise there's no
real point in tracing content around
something I guess obviously we use I use
HR F's for my projects and for yeah I
might work at our agency at clique
studios and then for people that are not
you know that are just not there yet
that don't need my argument is always
feel like well eight reps is expensive
and it's like it is and if you you can't
afford it you really don't need it right
like if you're if you're so if you're
not making any money from your thing
that you can't justify that type of time
and financial investment in an SEO tool
because it is a time investment as well
like the tool doesn't
doesn't that do the work you have to
learn it and you have to figure out how
to best use it I've been joking around
with people lately that like I never
used before I went to Philadelphia to
traffic think tank I had never used
really used content Explorer and now we
have what I use mostly in the tool yeah
and yeah so I think like for a lot of
people the idea of like well I need to
have a tool to tell me these things and
I think I think there's some other ways
to kind of figure that stuff out there's
a lot of ways to do topical research and
if you're really an expert on what
you're whatever you're trying to do
either a develop that expertise or be
like you already know like you already
know what the hottest things are you
know what most people need help with
volume will be there so tell me a little
bit if that's where you start like what
are if we started there what are some of
the like the next mistakes you see
people make especially beginners what
are some like common beginner mistakes
you see maybe the most common mistakes
I've seen a few people mention this like
within the past few years it's kind of
becoming a bit more of a well known
thing I think is that I'm not
considering the intent of the search so
obviously it started been around for
ages this kind of search intent thing
where you're basically looking at like
informational intent or whether they
want to buy something all that kind of
stuff but I think you still get people
that are probably newer to SEO where
they're trying to rank a page that just
doesn't really fit within the search
results of the keyword that I had going
for like I think I was started looking
into this a little bit earlier so I'm
always just looking at like keywords and
I think I kept like came across like
something like vegan protein powder I
was looking at the search results and
you kind of think you know if you solve
a boolean protein-packed if I'd be like
a go-to keyword that you want to rank
for because it's just it's what you sell
it's probably like the most high volume
keywords and all that kind of stuff
well then you look at the search results
and it's like mainly blog posts it's
like top ten vegan protein powders and
with a few kind of you know casts
through pages to have in there here and
there but you can I think if you're like
a total beginner to like this SEO and I
think you just think well I'd go for
that keyword and that's what I want to
rank at the homepage for so that's what
my website sells so you type and you
just terrifying a losing battle like
trying to do that where
that's not what people want to see
really they won either a list of like
reviews and best protein barrows or
whatever the case may be or they one
page like listing lots of different ones
lots of choice to buy rather than just
like your home page where you just you
know nothing really exists on most
people's home pages apart from a bit
kind of bit of blurb about the company
and that kind of stuff but I think that
still you know it is still a mistake I
think for even the kind of really
professional SEO it's kind of difficult
to get it wrong sometimes and she's a
dense search intense like all over the
place and yeah I think that's a big
mistake that people made yeah I
definitely agree that you know we uh I
was trying to do the SEO thing like
where you try to put the square peg in
the round hole and you're like hey this
we had this piece of content written on
the click Studios blog and I was like it
was really a document about how we at
the we go to the University of Chicago
and teach some classes there which is a
great privilege to like bring young
marketers and kind of share our world
with them the side of like digital
marketing but we had so we had
documented all this stuff like it's huge
six thousand word article all about like
how we teach how we think about digital
marketing skills and I'm like cool we
should rank this for digital marketing
skills and I went through and I did all
the on-page stuff and whatever and then
when you you know I later was like you
know we're getting links to it
we haven't authorities until
authoritative website and I like it's
just isn't ranking it's not ranking and
I started like going through really
looking at the intent and I'm like this
is people want to learn like this is
what we have here even if I was to push
it to the first page by just like a
bunch of authority links and whatever
else like it still is not gonna stay
there very long because it doesn't match
the intent of what people want so I
totally agree with you it's funny I saw
something from you know Nick Eubanks
recently from from the future and he was
just talking he's like oh you guys are
just talking about search intent now and
it's like yeah Nick I'm just getting it
now sorry like figuring it out so yeah I
totally agree and we just I just made a
video recently about just like barnacle
and parasite SEO like trying to like
you're not gonna rank for being in
protein powder it's
our intended so research intent it's
higher up on the awareness funnel so you
want to get on those lists and things
like yeah I think the thing with that is
it's not always clear just from looking
at the keyword either
you don't like to say little bit being
protein powder and you don't really know
what people are looking for just from
those three words you'd really really
start to understand what people actually
want to see once you look at that you
know the top ranking pages because
obviously qoodles just trying to serve
the most relevant results of people so
it's kind of like the way to best
understand search intent I think yeah
absolutely so that was kind of beginner
SEO mistakes and kind of over into
advanced SEO mistakes are there any
other mistakes that you see people
making either beginner or advanced
people probably kind of focus too much
on keywords I think a lot of the time
like I mean there's obviously reason to
do that Christy was it kind of still
important you know it makes sense to
focus on the things that people are
searching for the way that people most
search for a certain thing but I think
in general it's kind of most of the
pages that I see kind of ranking if you
look at the top keyword that they rank
for that the keyword that they get most
of the traffic from it's still a small
percentage of the overall traffic to
their webpage so it's like you've got
say just to use the same example again
if you go in for vegan protein powder
maybe you're getting a thousand people a
month from that exact keyword but then
you'll have like best freedom protein
powder and best vegan protein powder for
men and all these variations that maybe
just get two or three or five or six
kind of you know searches visited every
month from those but because your
ranking were just hundreds of those
keywords it ends up equaling by the sum
of all those keywords is more than The
Times Hardy keyword that you're going
for so I think thinking about things in
a more kind of broader sense like
thinking about topics such as approach
the keywords makes a lot of sense these
days I'm trying to group these things
that are effectively the same way of you
know looking for the same thing just
grouping those things together you know
someone's searching vegan protein powder
they're all best feeding protein powder
that I am looking for the same thing
really so it's like the page that ranks
for one of those terms no right for the
other term and then
other smaller less popular ways of
searching for things as well so I think
you know just just I think the mistake
is kind of people just not looking
outside of the keyword and just really
just going after the one keyword and
then building like you know and text
linked for that keyword and having that
kind of tunnel vision approach to just
this you know primary kind of head
keyword that the focus done yeah I've
had people reach out to me and they're
like oh we want this if we're gonna like
we're talking about just working
together and figuring out ways to build
relationships and build links together
and stuff all right well cool when you
link to us use this anchor text and I'm
like I don't think you want that
like I don't don't know like that's you
know and you just published that article
recently all about anchor text in
everything and I thought that was super
interesting and I you know I talked
about it in our mashup Monday we're just
kind of like highlighting really good
content and something we've seen a lot
of traction about is you know writing
about things in a branded way right like
if I'm referencing a tree F's article on
anchor text I'm not gonna use the I know
this is very meta
I'm not gonna use the anchor text of the
words anchor text I'm probably gonna
link to it with a phrase of like this
great article by H refs about anchor
text like that's gonna be like what
actually sends people over and it's more
natural right like the whole idea of
like exact match anchor text like I
don't not a lot it might happen some of
the time but I've done a lot of like
research and I know you've obviously
done bigger research but even in my
anecdotal work like looking at the links
we're getting especially really good
like earned links I get it's never like
it's everything's different like all of
the kind of anchor text we get or like
one or two percent you know they're all
I'm off and random you know I think you
kind of touched on to have another
mistake that people make just just there
which is the they reach out for a link
and they stay you know I want you to
link with this specific phrase and it's
usually the key word that they're doing
after and it's like you know most links
as you say aren't gonna naturally occur
that way but every part of a phrase or
just using some other words like you
know href so whatever you're linking to
so I think if you do that too much and
you're trying to force that not only you
not get the
just used alienate people bye-bye
clearly showing them that you only care
about the SEO value of whatever they're
giving to you but you're just in a you
know it's gonna look a bit unnatural as
well if you if you if you're successful
in what you're doing at least is to end
up looking unnatural yeah
worst-case best-case scenario you
alienate somebody worse it's it looks
real and don't act like it's not obvious
to Google like oh cool you have like 96
links to this with the same phrase on 96
different web sites that's normal like
they know it so yeah
awesome well Josh I really appreciate
you coming on 100 days of SEO yeah no
worries
thanks for inviting me on
[Music]